.TH PU-TADAA 1 "2025-01-15" "pu 1.0.0" "PU Manual"

.SH NAME
pu-tadaa \- Display celebratory "TADAA!" messages with optional title, message, and note

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pu-tadaa
[OPTIONS]
[TITLE]
[MESSAGE]
[NOTE]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Display celebratory "TADAA!" messages with decorative borders, stars, and optional content. Perfect for announcing successful operations, completed builds, or project milestones.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I TITLE
Optional title for the celebration message. If not provided, displays just "TADAA!" with stars.

.TP
.I MESSAGE
Optional additional message displayed below the title with a colored arrow indicator.

.TP
.I NOTE
Optional note displayed in subdued gray color below the message with an arrow indicator.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color
Enable colored output even when CI environment variable is set. Overrides CI-based color detection.

.TP
.BR \-nc ", " \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output completely. Useful for logging to files or when colors are not desired.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display this help message and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CI
If set to any value, automatically disables colored output for CI/CD environments unless
.B \-\-color
is explicitly specified.

.SH COLOR DETECTION
Colors are automatically disabled in the following cases:
.TP
.B CI environment
When the CI environment variable is set (typical in CI/CD pipelines)
.TP
.B Non-terminal output
When output is redirected to a file or piped to another command (detected via stdout terminal check)
.TP
.B Explicit flag
When the
.B \-\-no\-color
flag is used

The
.B \-\-color
flag can override any of these automatic detections to force colored output.

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The script creates a bordered celebration message with the following structure:
.TP
.B With colors:
- Cyan double-line border (═)
- Yellow stars (★)
- White "TADAA!" text in bold
- Green title text in bold
- Cyan arrow (▶) for message
- Gray arrow and text for note

.TP
.B Without colors:
- Plain double-line border
- Plain stars and "TADAA!" text
- Simple ">" characters as indicators

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Simple celebration:
.B pu-tadaa

.TP
With title only:
.B pu-tadaa "Build completed"

.TP
Full celebration with all elements:
.B pu-tadaa "Deploy successful" "All services are running" "Check logs for details"

.TP
Disable colors for file output:
.B pu-tadaa --no-color "Task finished" > log.txt

.TP
Force colors in CI environment:
.B CI=1 pu-tadaa --color "Pipeline completed"

.TP
Force colors when piping:
.B pu-tadaa --color "Build finished" | tee build.log

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid options, etc.)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pu-log (1),
.BR pu-color (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Andrei Dumitrescu <andrei.dumitrescu@pm.me>
